Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform. Uniquely combines industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at tellerik.com/platform that's tellerik.com/platform
From the hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman.
It's a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number 503. In this
episode, Scott talks with computer
vision expert, Greg Borenstein about
imagining and designing a realistic
future Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes,
and today we're chatting with
Greg Bornstein. He is a
futurist consultant on one of
my favorite shows, the new
minority report. He's got an
extensive background in computer vision
and graphics programming, and just
all things interactive. And you
were at the MIT media
lab for a while. Why
aren't you? Yeah, that's right.
I just graduated in June
from the playful systems group
there. I love that there
is even a playful systems
group. Is it just literally
making stuff that's fun or
why is it called playful
systems? One big aspect of
it you can think of
as kind of the future
of games, like thinking about
how to make games in
different environments. And then the
other aspect of it is
really using a playful approach
to all the different systems
that exist in our world.
The same way games do
with the systems that they
present taking a similar kind
of systemic interaction approach to
the real systems in our
world that we live in.
Very cool. So you are
currently a futurist consultant or
consulting on the future in
minority report, which is the
TV show that is currently
out right now with making
good, which is kind of
an extension of the minority
report movie with Tom cruise.
How do you get a
gig like that? Well, first
of all, I try to
call myself a futurist because
I think that's often a,
a name for, for people
who are like, take a
little bit too much credit
for their ability to predict
that prediction, people who put
thought leader in their Twitter
bio. Yeah. Futurist has that
same kind of feeling to
me because as I think
of it as like, you
know, scientific and research consultant
and a big part of
that is it's less about
trying to predict the future,
you know, and then it
is about how do you
depict a future in a
way that says something interesting
about today and also what
technologies or coming social changes
or things like that that
are coming are gonna, you
know, are going to shape
how We think of, you
know, how we think of
society, how we live as
people, and then how can
we depict and explain those
effects to an audience has
never seen, seen them before.
Interesting. Let's, let's take that
apart a little bit. I
like the way that you
phrase that. So this isn't
as much me, like I'm
going to go into the
future and then come back
and then tell Greg whether
he was right or not
as much as it's taking
where we're kind of headed
the vector that we're headed
in and, and getting a
general sense of like, yeah,
I could see this coming
to a certain point. And
then what would be the
social ramifications of that? If
in fact we went to
that. Yeah, absolutely. And part
of that is because of
the timeline of the show,
which is 50 years out,
it's set in 2065. If
you talk to anyone, you
know, I, as I did
for this to do the
work for the show, talk
to a ton of scientists
and technologists and engineers working
in a wide variety of
different fields and you ask
them 50 years, they all
throw up their hands and
say, 50 years is impossible.
You know, they can tell
you very, exactly what will
happen in five years. They
can give you extremely grand
longterm ambitions and you know,
a hundred years, but like
50, 50 years is totally
impossible. It's like, it's like
off the end of anything
currently being imagined, but not
far enough to be totally
magic. So, so part of
that, the way we take
advantage of that is like,
you know, some of the
things we put in the
show, we say they're 50
years, but they're really, they're
much, much sooner than that.
They're five to 10 years,
but a naive audience. Who's
never heard of the topic
before. Wouldn't believe it. If
you told them, that's what
it was. So the great
example of that is in
the, in the first episode,
the bringing the passenger pigeons
back from extinction, which is
something that people are actively
working on today and will
happen in the next five
to 10 years. And that
is, but if you tell
people that, that, that happened
in 20, 20, 20, 25,
they wouldn't believe you. So
by being out 50 years,
you get, you know, much
more leeway for people, believing
things, surprising, things like that.
Interesting. You know, it's so
funny that they say hindsight
is 2020. You know, the
iPad was not that long
ago, you know, and, and
star Trek, the next generation
had, you know, these L
cars, pads that they called
in PADD that were effectively
iPads. And it seemed almost,
almost a little bit less
sophisticated than what we have
now. And they were going
300 years out. If you
would tell someone by now
we'd have these things and
we could ask Siri questions,
then I think, Yeah, the
iPads or the iPads and
star Trek, you're saying I'm
totally obsessed with, because it's
an example. I think of
something that people get really
wrong about futurism, which is
they have the form, right?
Do people talk about like
how star Trek invented the
cell phone or invented the
iPad like that? And those
iPads, if you watched them
on star Trek, they have
the form factor, you know,
it's this tablet, computer, but
the way they use them,
when you look at them
today, it seems just crazy.
Like people are constantly handing
them to each other or
like in one of the
movies, they show Picard's desk.
And they're trying to indicate
that he's very busy. He's
got a stack of them,
like spilling over on his
desk, you know? And if
you, for a while watching
that stuff, every watched a
bunch of those recently, and
I was like, couldn't understand
why they were, why they
were so being used so
weirdly. And the answer is
they don't have the internet,
they have iPads and not
the internet. So I pads
are just space paper. They're
not like, like our tablets
are today. Like only makes
sense as a portal into
the network. You know, everything
we do on them is
about their use on the
network. You would never have
multiple pads for different documents,
obviously because those documents live
on the digital device and
are copied through the internet.
And so as soon as
you see that, like they
don't actually have like the
iPads and tablets as we
see them today, they are
mostly the internet with a
little bit of interface and
star Trek doesn't have the
internet. It just has the
interface, which actually makes the
futurism like totally wrong from
my perspective. Yeah. Yeah. And
it makes me realize that
it was very kind of
hub and spoke, you know,
there was the central internet,
but it was really just
the core machine that was
really smart. You know, the,
the, the gene Roddenberry's wife,
you know, the voice of
Michelle Barrett kind of like in
the background, she was, It
was like the, the how
Of star Trek. And there
was a hub and spoke
where all the pads could
basically talk to that, but
that wasn't the cloud. And
there was no peer to
peer. And it only works
when it's live. You know,
they're talking constantly talking about
like, they can't get subspace,
you know, communications basically CB
radio. And, you know, they
can, they have these digital
fabricators that can like produce
beverages that can get aliens
of different species drunk, but
they can't like, they don't
seem to be able to
make those, you know, digital,
then they can make all
those digital computers, but they
don't seem to be able
to like, have the information
technology to transmit data between
them. It's really interesting when
you juxtapose that with some
of the things that are
going on in minority report,
because like, let's say that,
you know, Picard goes up
to number one and it
says here and hands him,
the pad in minority report,
there's just a swipe gesture.
It's just, I'm swiping it
in your general direction and
it jumps onto your table
or it jumps into your
eyes or it jumps onto
your pad. Yeah, absolutely. And
that's one thing, one of
my, my tiny little Wars,
I fight as we'd work
on the show is I
try never to have anyone
hand everyone, anyone else, a
flashdrive or like a little
hard drive. And that's like,
it's a tiny little thing.
But to me it's something
that matters because of what
you exactly what you just
said, you know, it's the,
the screenwriters often want it
for narrative reasons. Like how
do you depict the story
element of, I am passing
you a file. I'm giving
you this critical information to
our story. And, you know,
and if, if you and
I met and I, you
asked me, will you send
me, send me that file?
I wouldn't whip out a
flash drive and hand it
to you, I'd say, okay.
And then I would tap
my phone and then you
would have it, but that's
totally invisible and non, you
know, not dramatic to watch.
And that's, that's one of
the big challenges. And that's
something like, one of my
ways of trying to address
that challenge in minority report
is to fight against handling
flash drives and to have
to have them just have
a line or two of
dialogue to send like, Oh,
I'll send you like a
secure download link for that
or whatever, you know, something
like that. So that it's,
it's clear that they're actually
just using the network and
not passing those drives around.
It does seem like so
many futurists and people who
think about the future completely
missed the idea of wireless
and ubiquitous connectivity. I mean,
in snow crash, they get
this amazing matrix that they
Jack into, but they do
it from a payphone. Yup.
Yeah. Which goes all the
way back to, to William Gibson
and the origins of cyberspace
in the phone system. Yeah.
Everyone seems to have a
fun, you know, there's a
payphone and right now actually
recently one of my seven
year old, my seven year
old saw a payphone and
was like, there's just a
random phone sitting right here.
It is weird. Yeah. And
that's actually, you know, that's
the, that's something that is
even much more stronger in
television or film, which is
that there's this visual bias,
right. It's not a novel
it's that there's, it's a
visual medium. And so that
creates this incredibly strong bias
towards any visual depiction of
the future. So, cool, weird
looking hardware that, you know,
cars are the things that
look really different from today
or interfaces that are visual
and splashy, like the original
minor minority report movie is
extremely influential as a piece
of science fiction, but it's
also like, I love it
as a movie, don't get
me wrong, but it's very
shallow as a piece of
science fiction. It basically depicts
a world totally unchanged from
the world of today, except
with like really beautiful, fascinating
gesture interfaces, you know, and
like it's, most of those
lessons in terms of the
world is the pic that
have already been fully digested
10 years, 13 years later.
And that's, to me, you
know, a little bit of
a miss in terms of
what I want from science,
No I'm sitting here and
I'm talking to you with
a 30 inch monitor that
is probably six or seven
years old works great. And
I've got a 25 here
in a 25 years. So
I've got, you know, five
or 6,000 pixels across. I
am pretty much hooked up,
but it's not really changed
in the last eight years
in minority report. When you
go to the police station,
they've got clear see-through LCDs.
This seems to be the
thing that says we're in
the future. Right. You show
someone the reverse side of
the LCD, but then when
they go and visit one
of their helpers, one of
their like exiled police helpers,
he doesn't have the fancy
tech. He doesn't have the
see-through LCD. What does that
fascination with these transparent LCDs?
And was that a conscious
decision to indicate that he
doesn't have his fancy stuff
as they do back in
the base? Yeah, definitely. So
that comes from one of
our core principles of the
futurism of the show, which
is that, you know, there's
the famous William Gibson quote that
everyone knows, which is that
the future is here. It's
not just, it's just not
evenly distributed. And that really,
we, we really try to
do that, which is in
a lot of science fiction
visions, you get like, Oh,
this is the future of
X, you know? And then
every single person has X
technology. You know, no matter
how rich they are, how
poor they are, whether they're
working in an institution, you
know, like a police station
or a fancy tech company,
or whether they're just some
individual on the street. And
as anyone who's at all
notices, the role of technology
in society knows that's just
not how technology works, you
know, at any given time
there's some technology, that's the
new hot thing that everybody's
super excited about. You know,
right now we might name
virtual reality or gesture interfaces.
Are there things like that?
And then there's the ones
that were, are that are
ubiquitous, but still feel very
new, like smartphones. Then there's
the older ones that are
even more ubiquitous, but are,
you know, nobody even notices
them as technology anymore, like
laptops. And then you go
back to, you know, I
remember it wasn't that many
years ago. I remember, I
think it was in 2014.
I remember reading the headline
that India had just turned
off their last Telegraph system
and still had 25,000 users.
You know? So like the
past, doesn't just like that
the snap just disappear. It
stays around. And so a
realistic world of the future,
there will still be people
using things to look very
much like smartphones. There might
be like an AR in
the future of 20, 65
in minority report. The newest
piece of technology is the
contact lens, augmented reality computing,
you know, and that's not,
it's not like every person
in the street suddenly has
one of those. It's used
for experts who need them
in their job. Like detective
Vega, who's the lead character
in the show she's using
it constantly in the course
of doing her work because
she's a specialist who needs
it and you'll see a
few other people, but it's
not ubiquitous. And then you'll
see things like those variations.
You're talking about like the
police stations, having the coolest,
newest tech, you know, gesture
interfaces. And then Wally who's
the, the tech that go
to the side has the
tactual touchscreen, you know, which
isn't as slick and is
not buying it with government's
money. And, you know, it's,
it's a little, and it's
probably a little bit older
too. You know, that's really,
really valuable Pointed that out
because I'm thinking about like
the Microsoft just announced the
price on the HoloLens developer
kit, and it's gonna be
$3,000. And I think there's
like a minimum buy of
two, right? So they immediately
priced it all out completely,
but they keep saying, Hey,
the hallow HoloLens is not
the Oculus rift. This is
a tool for high end
for, you know, for forensics,
for architects and things like
that. I think we all
want whatever the new tech
is to become ubiquitous and
$300 overnight. Yeah. And that,
you know, some tech never
becomes ubiquitous, you know, like
the sr 71 Blackbird was
pretty impressive in the seventies,
but there's not one in
every garage, you know, like
that's just, and, and that's,
you know, that's kind of
ridiculous example, but even then
it's like, there's plenty of
tech that like only lives
in institutions and specialized jobs
and never, and never water's
down like that, that, you
know, the, the Gartner hype
cycle is not a rule
of nature that happens for
every technology. Hey folks, I
wanted to take a moment
to tell you about Reagan
and their new product called
pulse. Reagan is an error
and crash reporting software provider
and their new product pulse.
It's a realtime user monitoring
product. It gives you performance
data and user insights. Lets
you understand exactly what's happening
when users interact with your
software. So you're never left
guessing. Reagan provides you with
the answers to your performance
questions and they've found over
10 billion that's billion with a
B bugs and customer apps
with their crash reporting product.
And now Reagan will help
you understand application quality. Like
no one else over 30,000
developers worldwide, can't be wrong.
I use Reagan and all
the time and I enjoyed
it very much. You can
try it out today with
a no risk 30 day
free trial start improving your
software quality immediately try Reagan
for free today@reagan.io. When you're
thinking of these kinds of
technologies, you're trying to take
a current technology and move
it forward. It does make
me wonder why things don't
exist now to use the
example of two people meet,
I've got a pad, you've
got a phone and I
make a swiping gesture over
to you right now. I
mean, Bluetooth is a nightmare
of pairing and lost connections
and ridiculous like pin numbers.
We used to do the
whole pin number thing. And
now half of my Bluetooth
devices just have a pin
number of all zeros. You
know, why is the idea
of peer-to-peer pairing so ridiculous
and why am I not
just moving my hand and
swiping things over to you
and having jumped the gap?
Yeah. So this is an
area that John under Koffler
who did, he was the
person who had my job
on the original movie in
that back in 2002, he
was a graduate student at
MIT at the media lab
as well in Hershey issues,
tangible media group. And he
did the futurism for the
movie. And that's what he
does. Is he, his company
oblong does exactly. That's the
problem. They work on solving
exactly what you're describing. They
built the Fox news desk.
If you've seen it as
like their set, which, and
they have amazing demos where
you go in a room
and you walk in with
your device and you know,
everybody, you can throw things
from your tablet to the
screen and like, no matter
what operating systems people are
in, it all kind of
works. And, and it's amazing.
But I, I think that
that's an area where I
actually have a very different
view as a futurist, which
is, I really like another
one of my little things
I haven't succeeded in getting
in the show yet, but
I want to do a
scene where they all come
in with their different tablets
and they actually spend five
seconds pairing and getting stuck
and not having that work
like every room I've ever
been in that and use
the projector because I think
that's not a technical problem.
That's a social and institutional
problem, which doesn't get fixed,
which is permanent because it's
not about, it's not a
technical problem that gets solved.
It's not silicone getting cheaper
or faster. It's nothing like
that. It's a nature of
human institutions and like compare
competition in business and standard
settings and like the nature
of human as social animals.
That means that those kinds
of problems never get solved.
You know, You have to
do that. So I work
remotely for Microsoft and I
was on a meeting day
before yesterday and we spent,
I swear to God, 12
or 13 minutes, just, can
you hear me? Can you,
can you, can you turn
it? I mean, it was
ridic and these were, these
were smart people and you
know, I, so I thought
that, Oh, this is a
problem with Skype, right. It
must be, it must be
wonderful on the other side
and someone else there used
to work for Google and
he's like, no, we have
the same problem with Hangouts.
And someone else uses blue
jeans. It's like, there is
literally no system that you
can simply call someone and
have the camera work and
the mic work every single
time reliably a hundred percent.
So I would love to
see that not work 50
years. Yeah. This is part
of my view about like
when we, when we cover
internet of things, he things
also, which is like the,
you know, software as anybody
who works on software works
intimately with software knows. Software
is amazing. It's incredibly flexible
and it's broken at least
20% of the time. And
so one of things that,
you know, if you're lucky,
like a great system is
broken only 20% of the
time. And so one of
the things that's going to
happen as we put software
in everything, is that it's
going to have all this
flexibility and programmability and changeability,
and it will be broken
20% of the time, you
know, systems that were used
to being extremely robust and
broken away less will be
broken more. And you know,
that might mean we don't
put software in the intimate
parts of somewhere like mission
critical systems where that really,
you know, life or death
things where that really can't
be. But it might also
just mean that we'd make
that trade off. You know,
we get used to, you
know, like, you know, if
you have a Tesla, you
and your Tesla, it's doing
a software update and you
can't drive for 10 minutes
or, you know, a couple
hours and then that's, you
just get used to that.
Cause there's so many advantages.
And like we make, we
mock that. And especially as
programmers, we have a tendency
to brutally criticize ourselves for
our crappy quality and like
how broken everything always is.
But like, that's actually, that's
not a dystopian future. That's
actually, you know, a trade
off that we're making for
re for good reasons, you
know, we should be conscious
of those and critical of
them. And we shouldn't believe,
you know, certain kind of
utopian pitches for technologies like
the IOT that claimed that
that will never happen. We
should always know that we
should be realistic about it,
but that doesn't, you know,
that's like, there's a worse
as better thing that actually
is better. It's a, it's
a trade off we want
to make. Yeah. I think
it all depends though. And
this is where it's hard
to predict, right? I've got
a wifi light bulbs and
I thought they were going
to be a game changer.
And I recently spent two
solid hours trying to get
the firmware updated on these
light bulbs. And then I
realized, okay, that's stupid wifi,
light bulbs are a dumb
idea, but I've got a
nest, which is a wifi
enabled thermostat. And it's amazing.
And I walked by and
I waved my hand over
it and it shows me
the weather and like, that's,
you know, that works. I
would not have guessed that
I needed a wifi enabled
thermostat. And I definitely wouldn't
have guessed that the light
bulbs would be okay. Yeah.
One of the classic little
metaphors for this, that lives
in my head is like,
whenever you go, I remember
like when I started going
into public bathrooms and there
would be the Persimmony sensors
on the, on the faucets
and on the pound paper
towel dispensers. And I remember
it for a long time
years. I was so angry
every time I interacted with
them because they worked so
badly, you know, they make
you feel like you're like
begging for a paper towel
or for some water to
come out of the tap.
And I thought like, why
is this change happen? Like
this is some ridiculous adoption
of fancy technology that is
just making the experience worse.
And then, you know, maybe
it's obvious to other people,
but then I realized that
it's not about the user
experience. It's about, it's about
sensation, you know, it's about
like, not spreading germs by
touching things. So it's like
that. And that's actually why
they've spread and become ubiquitous.
Cause it's actually far better
on just like an aspect
of that experience I hadn't
really thought through. And so
that works 20% of the
time. Yeah. And so that
idea that like the idea
that there's this curve of
permanent, you know, improving smoothness
transparency of user interface and
that's always the future is
not, you know, I just
isn't me. I just simply
don't believe. Yeah, we definitely
need to see a firmware
where Vegas Vegas contact lenses
get a firmware update. That'd
be brilliant. Let's, let's dig
in a little bit more
about amazing technologies that were
a promise, but maybe only
work a little bit of
the time. You are an
author of a book called
making things see from O'Reilly
you talk about connect and
three D vision and things
like that. Connect feels like
one of those amazing technologies
that sometimes just as weird
stuff, I'll be standing in
front of it. It totally
sees my skeleton. And then
suddenly my right leg is
up on top of my
head and it just shakes
for a while and then
I'm freaking out, but it's
still an interesting and valuable
technology. Why is that so
hard? Why is picking up
motion capturing skeletal captures so
complex? Well, I mean, as
a technology, it's one of
the things that's just kind
of amazing that it works
at all. You know, if
you think about what it's
doing, like three D capture
at a high frame rate
and high resolution, and the
incredible, especially in the current
Microsoft stack, just incredible software
stack, that's going in like
the machine learning and incredible,
just incredible, you know, software
achievements that are going into
making the skeleton detection and
all that stuff. But on
the other hand, I think,
I just don't think about
a lot. And it's, I
think it's not just, it's
not just the reliability of
it in some kind of
objective sense. It's that the
way it breaks is different
than things that we're used
to, you know, we're used
to the way, you know,
Oh, Spinney beach ball on
the Mac, or like, Oh,
this webpage, you know, the
JavaScript is making the Chrome
tab, not responsive. Like there's
like we get used to
the way technological systems fail.
And so when we encounter
new ones, especially ones that
work in very different ways,
like, like the connect is
an example of computer vision
and particularly machine learning systems,
which tend to fail very
differently than traditional interactive software
systems. Is that the way
they fail is just alien.
And so it's not that
they're feeling any worse. It's
just that we don't have
expectations around those. They're not
lit, it's not legible to
us how they're going to
fail. And so a lot
of the good design work
in around those areas has
to be about like explaining
to the user. Like one
of the, one of the
things in the early, when
I started making connect projects,
we just learned right away
is you just have to
show the user what you're,
you know, what you're seeing
of them. Like either the
RGB color image, they can
tell because you have users,
like it's not working something.
And like, they're not standing
on camera because they can't
tell if the camera is
seeing them or you shouldn't
have the depth image and
they don't realize like, Oh,
they're leaning back against the
seat. Or, you know, as
soon as you have to
show them some aspect of
how the system is seeing
them, because it's totally illegible
to them and they have
no mental model, cause they've
never interacted with anything that
sees the world in the
same way. And so, you
know, that's, and that's, you
know, depending on how ubiquitous
the systems become or, or
what you to get a
body of users who use
them a lot like that,
the literacy will improve and
you'll stop having to do
that as much. But especially
in these early adoption periods
or in technology, that's, that's
not, you don't use it.
You don't use it ubiquitous
in your daily life. You
have to teach users. Right.
I've got a, a surface.
And as soon as I
started using a touchscreen, I,
I can't not have a
touch screen anywhere else. And
I think it would have
been touched first, came out.
People thought that it was
going to be a replacement
for something. And really it
just augments things. You go
keyboard, mouse, touch, keyboard, mouse,
touch, and you move your
hands around. I thought that
when, when I saw minority
for the first time, that
gesture based, you know, simple
gestures would be ready now
by 2015, like right now
I'm looking at a Skype
window view. I'd like to
just point at it and
go like that and just
flick it off to the
left and have it jumped
over to the monitors. It's
almost unacceptable that that hasn't
happened yet. And I've tried
the leap motion. I've tried
connect. I've tried the there's
a thing called a MEO,
which connects to your, your
forearm. Yeah. He uses my
electrical. Yeah. It uses my
electrical impulses. Yeah. None of
those things are reliable enough.
They all make amazing demos,
but none of them have
taken over the world. Well,
yeah. And there's other problems
with them too, as somebody
who's done a ton of
connect projects, you know, there's
a famous thing about the
original minority report, which is
that, first of all, you
know, a lot of the
gesture interface vocabulary, John under
Kauflin Hershey had come up
with before the movie, but
not all of it. Some
of it, the gesture interface
stuff you see in the
movie, Tom cruise actually invented
like the gesture of using
one hand down the lane,
the arm to do fast
forward and rewind scrubbing. Like
Tom cruise came up with
that on set because he's
like, I need a precise
gesture to do this. I
can't. And he like, he
was a precise enough actor
that he had to think
it through in the end,
he came up with it
on set. But one of
the other things that happened
on the set of that
movie is that he was
standing for hours recording takes
of the scenes where he's
waving his hands around things
and his arms got so
tired. He couldn't hold them
up anymore. And so in
some of the scenes actually
wearing arm braces under his
shirt that helped hold his
arms up. And like they
had to limit the takes
and stuff so that the
fatigue could let him do
the gestures. And to me,
if I was a, you
know, somebody who worked in
interaction design on that set,
I'd be like, wow, this
is a red flag. Like
this is not something that
people are going to do
daily, daily lives. Like, I
don't know about you, but
I'm not in as good
shape as Tom cruise. And
like, I am not gonna
be able to hold my
arm out in front of
my, in front of myself
for five or eight hours
a day while I'm working.
You know? So I think
you're right about the kind
of hybrid, you know, multimodal
thing of like you move
between and you, you flick
and stuff like that. That's
not the same thing as
doing all of your work
with your arm outstretched in
front of you, right. This
is what they call gorilla
arms. This was what the
gorilla arms was, what people
would say that was going
to cause gesture based motions
to, to just not happen.
But I'm absolutely convinced that
the future is multimodal. And
I don't see it unreasonable
at all for me to
type type swipe, you know,
just flick with my hands.
And then hand goes right
back down to the keyboard.
It feels like the tech
could be there. Like there's
no reason. Maybe it's just
organizational willpower or maybe I
have to go and write
it myself. Doesn't that seem
like a good idea to
just flick them on a
window over to another one.
Yeah. I mean, there are
those, some of those gesture
systems are starting to come
into places where they're really
needed. Like I've seen a
bunch of the best gesture
work I've seen as in
sterile environments, like in surgery
and stuff like that, you
know, there's more and more
telemedicine and like just more
technology in the operating room.
And so I've seen some
work or, and that's an,
obviously an area where like
you can't type on a
keyboard or use a mouse
while you're in a sterile
environment. So there's a really
strong reason to do gestures
and there's money, you know,
you can put in more
expensive systems and more kind
of customized systems. And I
think that's a big part
of it too, is like
the systems going to train
us as much as, you
know, as much as you
were waving your hand, every
time you mentioned that in
the way you want to
do it, you know, like
one thing you learn when
you do computer vision projects
is like, if I can
tell the user exactly how
to do it, and then
I, it will work a
lot better. So constraints, you
know, and that's, that's just,
to me that's more feasible
in an expert system or
like we're in a system
designed to be used by
experts because they can do
some training on it, you
know? And that's, you can't
expect that, you know, for
just a regular, you know,
non informed technology user for
whom something's gotta be legible
and kind of work the
first time, Right. In any
system that does recognition a
constraint vocabulary, whether that be
specific words you can say,
or a specific motion so
that you know what to
look for, you're going to
make a huge difference. One
of the other things Shifting
gears a little bit that
impressed me about the show
was there are Kind of,
if you watch, you can
almost Watch the show twice.
You watch it for the
actors, you watch it for
the story, but then you
go back and you just
watch the background action, just
little subtle things that are
happening. There was one scene
when they're in a park
and a couple walks by
and their kids in a,
in a pram in a,
in a, in a little
pushcart and it's an interracial
couple, it's a gay couple
and the kid is inside
the pram, but the pram
has a translucent LCD iPad
looking thing and their plan,
some boxes in lines game.
So you've got know future
of changing social mores, and
you've got the, the transparent
LCDs. I think the pram
is driving itself And the
Paramus driving itself all condensed
into one thing I, that
has to have been completely
planned out and scripted. Yeah,
absolutely. And that's the, I
mean, that's the, almost the
opposite of what I was
saying about the difficulty of
showing, you know, interface and
the kind of the superficial
aspects of technology, you know,
the, in a, in a
televisual environment is that, you
know, it's hard to show
the internet, but there's certain
other kinds of changes that
can be so dense and
you can just show them
so quickly. And a lot
of those, like the, one
of those I care the
most about honestly, is the,
the demographic one. You know,
that's a huge thing for
us that we think about
a lot. And it comes
from real demographic research in
terms of, if you look
at like what the age
race, you know, gender distributions
of people in different jobs
and of in living in
American cities will be in
2050, you know, when it
comes to futurism, you almost
never know anything for certain,
but demographics is one of
the few things we actually
can say some things with
some confidence, like there's not
going to be more 50
year olds and 20, 65
than there are people born
in 2015. You know, I
don't, I don't say a
lot of things with confidence.
So I can say that
one with a lot of
confidence, you know, they're, they're
going to be fewer, but
they're not going to be
more. And that's an area
we just know a lot
about like, you know, the
future is going to be
more multi-racial and it's going
to be more equitable in
terms of sexual orientation and
sexual identification. And, you know,
it's going to be more
equal for men and women
in the workplace and all
of these things. And so
that's just a way that
we can very easily show
it's the future, just in
terms of casting. So like
we cast all non nonspecifically,
mentioned parts, racial, blind, and
gender blind, and, you know,
and we do, and we
really emphasize, we push constantly
with our production teams, for
the background actors to get,
you know, really diverse background
actors. Cause I think it's
a really subtle visual cue
clue that lets you know,
you're in the future and,
and yeah, the, the visual
storytelling and all of those
moments and taking small details
and letting them tell you
something bigger about the world
is something that we, we
try really hard to do.
One of my favorite ones
like that is in the
first episode, which is that
the, the episode which features
the candidate for the mayor
of DC. And at one
point he mentioned that he
was a professional football player
and he played for the
Washington football team, which is
the Washington red clouds. And
that was came out of,
you know, obviously today the
Washington football team is named
the Redskins, which is a,
you know, a name with
a racist history that there's
a lot of resistance and
pressure to change it. And
so I looked up what,
you know, what people who
advocate for changing it, what
would they want to change
it to? And they want
a name after red cloud
who's was a native leader.
And you know, that, I
believe that that was something
that will change in that
time. And actually this is
an area also, it gets
into kind of a wider
sense of how we try
to think about the future,
which is, you know, a
lot of science fiction. You
want to be critical of
the present. It's like one
of the things you want
to do, you want to
like look at, what's not,
what's wrong about the president
and talk about what's wrong
with it and identify those
problems. And in the last
30 years, especially the main
mode for doing that has
been dystopia. It's been a
way of taking the negative
things that are bad today
and, and pushing them out
further and imagining kind of
a reductio ad absurdum of
them. And I think that's,
you know, some of that's
been very powerful, like one
that comes to mind for
me is children of men,
which shows a kind of
security state dystopia. That's just
very visceral and powerful. That's
such an amazing movie for
anyone who's listening, like please
children of men. Like you
might as well just pause
the podcast now and go
and rent. Yeah, absolutely. And
so, but I also think
that as you know, and
I'm a huge fan in
literature, in Saifai literature of
cyber punk, you know, from
William Gibson and verse Sterling and
Neil Stevenson and in the
early eighties, you know, going
forward. But I actually, I
think that to some extent
that that has become such
a ubiquitous tone and mode
and science fiction, that it
doesn't have the impact it
used to have. Like, it
doesn't feel critical anymore. It
just feels depressing. People bounce
off of it. So then
the question was, we want
to tell this, like present
this complex world is not
safe. It's not star Trek.
It's not just a utopia
it's it's, but it's optimistic.
You know, it's as optimistic
as I feel about the
present and, but we still
want to be able to
be critical. So that's a
kind of conundrum that we
faced. And I think things
like that, red clouds example
and the diversity, our example,
that something that we've really
fixed on as a strategy
for that, that I'm, I'm
really excited about. And I
want to see other science
fiction properties do, which is
the way you criticize the
present is you show it
being exceeded. You show the
future of being better. You
see these problems that were
stuck, that we can't get
past today, that we're constantly
like you see them just
improve. You see like, Oh,
there's just, you know, multiracial
couples and you gender diversity
and people don't and fewer
people have a problem with
it. And you know, it's
not being Pollyanna about that
in the present. It's modeling
a world that can have
that and can get past
the kind of difficult problems.
And there is a route
to that and we're possible
showing what that route is
by being specific and precise
about the way you do
that. Very cool. Very cool.
Well, I really, really appreciate
having you on the show
today. And I encourage folks
to, to watch a minority
report. It's really a really
a great show and I'm
enjoying it very much. Thanks
a lot, Scott. Thanks for
having me. It's been great
to be here. Absolutely. This
has been another episode of
Hanselminutes and we'll see you
again next week.